"hgnc_symbol","gene_biotype","ensembl_gene_id","description"
"TSPAN6","protein_coding","ENSG00000000003","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface glycoprotein and is highly similar in sequence to the transmembrane 4 superfamily member 2 protein. It functions as a negative regulator of retinoic acid-inducible gene I-like receptor-mediated immune signaling via its interaction with the mitochondrial antiviral signaling-centered signalosome. This gene uses alternative polyadenylation sites, and multiple transcript variants result from alternative splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]"
"CFLAR","protein_coding","ENSG00000003402","The protein encoded by this gene is a regulator of apoptosis and is structurally similar to caspase-8. However, the encoded protein lacks caspase activity and appears to be itself cleaved into two peptides by caspase-8. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and partial evidence for several more variants exists. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]"
"TFPI","protein_coding","ENSG00000003436","This gene encodes a Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor that regulates the tissue factor (TF)-dependent pathway of blood coagulation. The coagulation process initiates with the formation of a factor VIIa-TF complex, which proteolytically activates additional proteases (factors IX and X) and ultimately leads to the formation of a fibrin clot. The product of this gene inhibits the activated factor X and VIIa-TF proteases in an autoregulatory loop. Inhibition of the encoded protein restores hemostasis in animal models of hemophilia. This gene encodes multiple protein isoforms that differ in their inhibitory activity, specificity and cellular localization. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016]"
"STAB1","protein_coding","ENSG00000010327","This gene encodes a large, transmembrane receptor protein which may function in angiogenesis, lymphocyte homing, cell adhesion, or receptor scavenging. The protein contains 7 fasciclin, 16 epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like, and 2 laminin-type EGF-like domains as well as a C-type lectin-like hyaluronan-binding Link module. The protein is primarily expressed on sinusoidal endothelial cells of liver, spleen, and lymph node. The receptor has been shown to endocytose ligands such as low density lipoprotein, Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, and advanced glycosylation end products. Supporting its possible role as a scavenger receptor, the protein rapidly cycles between the plasma membrane and early endosomes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"IL20RA","protein_coding","ENSG00000016402","This gene encodes a member of the type II cytokine receptor family. The encoded protein is a subunit of the receptor for interleukin 20, a cytokine that may be involved in epidermal function. The interleukin 20 receptor is a heterodimeric complex consisting of the encoded protein and interleukin 20 receptor beta. This gene and interleukin 20 receptor beta are highly expressed in skin, and are upregulated in psoriasis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]"
"SAMD4A","protein_coding","ENSG00000020577","Sterile alpha motifs (SAMs) in proteins such as SAMD4A are part of an RNA-binding domain that functions as a posttranscriptional regulator by binding to an RNA sequence motif known as the Smaug recognition element, which was named after the Drosophila Smaug protein (Baez and Boccaccio, 2005 [PubMed 16221671]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]"
"CAPG","protein_coding","ENSG00000042493","This gene encodes a member of the gelsolin/villin family of actin-regulatory proteins. The encoded protein reversibly blocks the barbed ends of F-actin filaments in a Ca2+ and phosphoinositide-regulated manner, but does not sever preformed actin filaments. By capping the barbed ends of actin filaments, the encoded protein contributes to the control of actin-based motility in non-muscle cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]"
"LTBP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000049323","The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of latent TGF-beta binding proteins (LTBPs). The secretion and activation of TGF-betas is regulated by their association with latency-associated proteins and with latent TGF-beta binding proteins. The product of this gene targets latent complexes of transforming growth factor beta to the extracellular matrix, where the latent cytokine is subsequently activated by several different mechanisms. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"LIMA1","protein_coding","ENSG00000050405","This gene encodes a cytoskeleton-associated protein that inhibits actin filament depolymerization and cross-links filaments in bundles. It is downregulated in some cancer cell lines. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene, and expression of some of the variants maybe independently regulated. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]"
"SYNE2","protein_coding","ENSG00000054654","The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear outer membrane protein that binds cytoplasmic F-actin. This binding tethers the nucleus to the cytoskeleton and aids in the maintenance of the structural integrity of the nucleus. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]"
"YBX3","protein_coding","ENSG00000060138","Enables RNA binding activity. Involved in cellular hyperosmotic response; cellular response to tumor necrosis factor; and negative regulation of programmed cell death. Located in cytosol. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"SP100","protein_coding","ENSG00000067066","This gene encodes a subnuclear organelle and major component of the PML (promyelocytic leukemia)-SP100 nuclear bodies. PML and SP100 are covalently modified by the SUMO-1 modifier, which is considered crucial to nuclear body interactions. The encoded protein binds heterochromatin proteins and is thought to play a role in tumorigenesis, immunity, and gene regulation. Alternatively spliced variants have been identified for this gene; one of which encodes a high-mobility group protein. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]"
"TNFRSF1A","protein_coding","ENSG00000067182","This gene encodes a member of the TNF receptor superfamily of proteins. The encoded receptor is found in membrane-bound and soluble forms that interact with membrane-bound and soluble forms, respectively, of its ligand, tumor necrosis factor alpha. Binding of membrane-bound tumor necrosis factor alpha to the membrane-bound receptor induces receptor trimerization and activation, which plays a role in cell survival, apoptosis, and inflammation. Proteolytic processing of the encoded receptor results in release of the soluble form of the receptor, which can interact with free tumor necrosis factor alpha to inhibit inflammation. Mutations in this gene underlie tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS), characterized by fever, abdominal pain and other features. Mutations in this gene may also be associated with multiple sclerosis in human patients. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016]"
"HYAL2","protein_coding","ENSG00000068001","This gene encodes a weak acid-active hyaluronidase. The encoded protein is similar in structure to other more active hyaluronidases. Hyaluronidases degrade hyaluronan, one of the major glycosaminoglycans of the extracellular matrix. Hyaluronan and fragments of hyaluronan are thought to be involved in cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. Although it was previously thought to be a lysosomal hyaluronidase that is active at a pH below 4, the encoded protein is likely a GPI-anchored cell surface protein. This hyaluronidase serves as a receptor for the oncogenic virus Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus. The gene is one of several related genes in a region of chromosome 3p21.3 associated with tumor suppression. This gene encodes two alternatively spliced transcript variants which differ only in the 5' UTR.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]"
"STON1-GTF2A1L","protein_coding","ENSG00000068781","STON1-GTF2A1L mRNAs are infrequent but naturally occurring read-through products of the neighboring STON1 and GTF2A1L genes. These transcripts encode fusion proteins composed of the vast majority of each of the individual elements, stonin 1 and general transcription factor IIA, 1-like. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The significance of these read-through variants and the function of the resulting protein products have not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]"
"TGFBR3","protein_coding","ENSG00000069702","This locus encodes the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta type III receptor. The encoded receptor is a membrane proteoglycan that often functions as a co-receptor with other TGF-beta receptor superfamily members. Ectodomain shedding produces soluble TGFBR3, which may inhibit TGFB signaling. Decreased expression of this receptor has been observed in various cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]"
"NEDD4","protein_coding","ENSG00000069869","This gene is the founding member of the NEDD4 family of HECT ubiquitin ligases that function in the ubiquitin proteasome system of protein degradation. The encoded protein contains an N-terminal calcium and phospholipid binding C2 domain followed by multiple tryptophan-rich WW domains and, a C-terminal HECT ubiquitin ligase catalytic domain. It plays critical role in the regulation of a number of membrane receptors, endocytic machinery components and the tumor suppressor PTEN. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016]"
"ST6GALNAC2","protein_coding","ENSG00000070731","ST6GALNAC2 belongs to a family of sialyltransferases that add sialic acids to the nonreducing ends of glycoconjugates. At the cell surface, these modifications have roles in cell-cell and cell-substrate interactions, bacterial adhesion, and protein targeting (Samyn-Petit et al., 2000 [PubMed 10742600]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]"
"STK10","protein_coding","ENSG00000072786","This gene encodes a member of the Ste20 family of serine/threonine protein kinases, and is similar to several known polo-like kinase kinases. The protein can associate with and phosphorylate polo-like kinase 1, and overexpression of a kinase-dead version of the protein interferes with normal cell cycle progression. The kinase can also negatively regulate interleukin 2 expression in T-cells via the mitogen activated protein kinase kinase 1 pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"NDE1","protein_coding","ENSG00000072864","This gene encodes a member of the nuclear distribution E (NudE) family of proteins. The encoded protein is localized at the centrosome and interacts with other centrosome components as part of a multiprotein complex that regulates dynein function. This protein plays an essential role in microtubule organization, mitosis and neuronal migration. Mutations in this gene cause lissencephaly 4, a disorder characterized by lissencephaly, severe brain atrophy, microcephaly, and severe cognitive disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]"
"TTC38","protein_coding","ENSG00000075234","Located in extracellular exosome. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"IL4R","protein_coding","ENSG00000077238","This gene encodes the alpha chain of the interleukin-4 receptor, a type I transmembrane protein that can bind interleukin 4 and interleukin 13 to regulate IgE production. The encoded protein also can bind interleukin 4 to promote differentiation of Th2 cells. A soluble form of the encoded protein can be produced by proteolysis of the membrane-bound protein, and this soluble form can inhibit IL4-mediated cell proliferation and IL5 upregulation by T-cells. Allelic variations in this gene have been associated with atopy, a condition that can manifest itself as allergic rhinitis, sinusitus, asthma, or eczema. Polymorphisms in this gene are also associated with resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type-1 infection. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]"
"TNS1","protein_coding","ENSG00000079308","The protein encoded by this gene localizes to focal adhesions, regions of the plasma membrane where the cell attaches to the extracellular matrix. This protein crosslinks actin filaments and contains a Src homology 2 (SH2) domain, which is often found in molecules involved in signal transduction. This protein is a substrate of calpain II. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015]"
"COL5A3","protein_coding","ENSG00000080573","This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillar collagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed of one or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closely related to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains of types V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chain combinations. Mutations in this gene are thought to be responsible for the symptoms of a subset of patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type III. Messages of several sizes can be detected in northern blots but sequence information cannot confirm the identity of the shorter messages. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ITGB5","protein_coding","ENSG00000082781","This gene encodes a beta subunit of integrin, which can combine with different alpha chains to form a variety of integrin heterodimers. Integrins are integral cell-surface receptors that participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signaling. The alphav beta5 integrin is involved in adhesion to vitronectin. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]"
"MAVS","protein_coding","ENSG00000088888","This gene encodes an intermediary protein necessary in the virus-triggered beta interferon signaling pathways. It is required for activation of transcription factors which regulate expression of beta interferon and contributes to antiviral innate immunity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2020]"
"PXN","protein_coding","ENSG00000089159","This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein involved in actin-membrane attachment at sites of cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix (focal adhesion). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. These isoforms exhibit different expression pattern, and have different biochemical, as well as physiological properties (PMID:9054445). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]"
"EFNB1","protein_coding","ENSG00000090776","The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and a ligand of Eph-related receptor tyrosine kinases. It may play a role in cell adhesion and function in the development or maintenance of the nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ITGA6","protein_coding","ENSG00000091409","The gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that comprise the alpha 6 subunit. This subunit may associate with a beta 1 or beta 4 subunit to form an integrin that interacts with extracellular matrix proteins including members of the laminin family. The alpha 6 beta 4 integrin may promote tumorigenesis, while the alpha 6 beta 1 integrin may negatively regulate erbB2/HER2 signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015]"
"TGFB2","protein_coding","ENSG00000092969","This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a latency-associated peptide (LAP) and a mature peptide, and is found in either a latent form composed of a mature peptide homodimer, a LAP homodimer, and a latent TGF-beta binding protein, or in an active form consisting solely of the mature peptide homodimer. The mature peptide may also form heterodimers with other TGF-beta family members. Disruption of the TGF-beta/SMAD pathway has been implicated in a variety of human cancers. A chromosomal translocation that includes this gene is associated with Peters' anomaly, a congenital defect of the anterior chamber of the eye. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Loeys-Dietz syndrome. This gene encodes multiple isoforms that may undergo similar proteolytic processing. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016]"
"BAMBI","protein_coding","ENSG00000095739","This gene encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein related to the type I receptors of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family, whose members play important roles in signal transduction in many developmental and pathological processes. The encoded protein however is a pseudoreceptor, lacking an intracellular serine/threonine kinase domain required for signaling. Similar proteins in frog, mouse and zebrafish function as negative regulators of TGF-beta, which has led to the suggestion that the encoded protein may function to limit the signaling range of the TGF-beta family during early embryogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"CATSPERG","protein_coding","ENSG00000099338","CATSPERG is a subunit of the CATSPER (see CATSPER1; MIM 606389) sperm calcium channel, which is required for sperm hyperactivated motility and male fertility (Wang et al., 2009 [PubMed 19516020]).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010]"
"HSD3B7","protein_coding","ENSG00000099377","This gene encodes an enzyme which is involved in the initial stages of the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol and a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. The encoded protein is a membrane-associated endoplasmic reticulum protein which is active against 7-alpha hydrosylated sterol substrates. Mutations in this gene are associated with a congenital bile acid synthesis defect which leads to neonatal cholestasis, a form of progressive liver disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]"
"MKNK2","protein_coding","ENSG00000099875","This gene encodes a member of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CAMK) Ser/Thr protein kinase family, which belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. This protein contains conserved DLG (asp-leu-gly) and ENIL (glu-asn-ile-leu) motifs, and an N-terminal polybasic region which binds importin A and the translation factor scaffold protein eukaryotic initiation factor 4G (eIF4G). This protein is one of the downstream kinases activated by mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases. It phosphorylates the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), thus playing important roles in the initiation of mRNA translation, oncogenic transformation and malignant cell proliferation. In addition to eIF4E, this protein also interacts with von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor (VHL), ring-box 1 (Rbx1) and Cullin2 (Cul2), which are all components of the CBC(VHL) ubiquitin ligase E3 complex. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but the full-length nature and biological activity of only two variants are determined. These two variants encode distinct isoforms which differ in activity and regulation, and in subcellular localization. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]"
"ABHD4","protein_coding","ENSG00000100439","Predicted to enable lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase activity and lysophospholipase activity. Predicted to be involved in N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine metabolic process; lipid homeostasis; and phosphatidic acid biosynthetic process. Predicted to act upstream of or within N-acylethanolamine metabolic process. Predicted to be located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Predicted to be active in lipid droplet and mitochondrion. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"PLTP","protein_coding","ENSG00000100979","The protein encoded by this gene is one of at least two lipid transfer proteins found in human plasma. The encoded protein transfers phospholipids from triglyceride-rich lipoproteins to high density lipoprotein (HDL). In addition to regulating the size of HDL particles, this protein may be involved in cholesterol metabolism. At least two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"TUBB1","protein_coding","ENSG00000101162","This gene encodes a member of the beta tubulin protein family. Beta tubulins are one of two core protein families (alpha and beta tubulins) that heterodimerize and assemble to form microtubules. This protein is specifically expressed in platelets and megakaryocytes and may be involved in proplatelet production and platelet release. A mutations in this gene is associated with autosomal dominant macrothrombocytopenia. Two pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosome Y.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]"
"CST3","protein_coding","ENSG00000101439","The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions, where they appear to provide protective functions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes the most abundant extracellular inhibitor of cysteine proteases, which is found in high concentrations in biological fluids and is expressed in virtually all organs of the body. A mutation in this gene has been associated with amyloid angiopathy. Expression of this protein in vascular wall smooth muscle cells is severely reduced in both atherosclerotic and aneurysmal aortic lesions, establishing its role in vascular disease. In addition, this protein has been shown to have an antimicrobial function, inhibiting the replication of herpes simplex virus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding a single protein. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]"
"MYL12A","protein_coding","ENSG00000101608","This gene encodes a nonsarcomeric myosin regulatory light chain. This protein is activated by phosphorylation and regulates smooth muscle and non-muscle cell contraction. This protein may also be involved in DNA damage repair by sequestering the transcriptional regulator apoptosis-antagonizing transcription factor (AATF)/Che-1 which functions as a repressor of p53-driven apoptosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 8.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]"
"LAMA1","protein_coding","ENSG00000101680","This gene encodes one of the alpha 1 subunits of laminin. The laminins are a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins that have a heterotrimeric structure consisting of an alpha, beta and gamma chain. These proteins make up a major component of the basement membrane and have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Poretti-Boltshauser syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]"
"TBL1X","protein_coding","ENSG00000101849","The protein encoded by this gene has sequence similarity with members of the WD40 repeat-containing protein family. The WD40 group is a large family of proteins, which appear to have a regulatory function. It is believed that the WD40 repeats mediate protein-protein interactions and members of the family are involved in signal transduction, RNA processing, gene regulation, vesicular trafficking, cytoskeletal assembly and may play a role in the control of cytotypic differentiation. This encoded protein is found as a subunit in corepressor SMRT (silencing mediator for retinoid and thyroid receptors) complex along with histone deacetylase 3 protein. This gene is located adjacent to the ocular albinism gene and it is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of the ocular albinism with late-onset sensorineural deafness phenotype. Four transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. This gene is highly similar to the Y chromosome TBL1Y gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]"
"ABCD1","protein_coding","ENSG00000101986","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter. This peroxisomal membrane protein is likely involved in the peroxisomal transport or catabolism of very long chain fatty acids. Defects in this gene have been identified as the underlying cause of adrenoleukodystrophy, an X-chromosome recessively inherited demyelinating disorder of the nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"GDPD3","protein_coding","ENSG00000102886","Enables phosphoric diester hydrolase activity. Involved in N-acylethanolamine metabolic process. Located in endoplasmic reticulum. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"TTC23","protein_coding","ENSG00000103852","Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of smoothened signaling pathway. Predicted to be located in cilium. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"DECR1","protein_coding","ENSG00000104325","Enables 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase (NADPH) activity; NADPH binding activity; and identical protein binding activity. Involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation. Located in cytosol; mitochondrion; and nucleoplasm. Part of catalytic complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"IKBKB","protein_coding","ENSG00000104365","The protein encoded by this gene phosphorylates the inhibitor in the inhibitor/NF-kappa-B complex, causing dissociation of the inhibitor and activation of NF-kappa-B. The encoded protein itself is found in a complex of proteins. Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]"
"GSDMD","protein_coding","ENSG00000104518","Gasdermin D is a member of the gasdermin family. Members of this family appear to play a role in regulation of epithelial proliferation. Gasdermin D has been suggested to act as a tumor suppressor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]"
"TNFRSF10A","protein_coding","ENSG00000104689","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is activated by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TNFSF10/TRAIL), and thus transduces cell death signal and induces cell apoptosis. Studies with FADD-deficient mice suggested that FADD, a death domain containing adaptor protein, is required for the apoptosis mediated by this protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ARHGEF10","protein_coding","ENSG00000104728","This gene encodes a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF). Rho GEFs regulate the activity of small Rho GTPases by stimulating the exchange of guanine diphosphate (GDP) for guanine triphosphate (GTP) and may play a role in neural morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with slowed nerve conduction velocity (SNCV). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015]"
"DOT1L","protein_coding","ENSG00000104885","The protein encoded by this gene is a histone methyltransferase that methylates lysine-79 of histone H3. It is inactive against free core histones, but shows significant histone methyltransferase activity against nucleosomes. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]"
"PRKD2","protein_coding","ENSG00000105287","The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the protein kinase D (PKD) family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This kinase can be activated by phorbol esters as well as by gastrin via the cholecystokinin B receptor (CCKBR) in gastric cancer cells. It can bind to diacylglycerol (DAG) in the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and may regulate basolateral membrane protein exit from TGN. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"CAPS","protein_coding","ENSG00000105519","This gene encodes a calcium-binding protein, which may play a role in the regulation of ion transport. A similar protein was first described as a potentially important regulatory protein in the dog thyroid and was termed as R2D5 antigen in rabbit. Alternative splicing of this gene generates two transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"BCAT2","protein_coding","ENSG00000105552","This gene encodes a branched chain aminotransferase found in mitochondria. The encoded protein forms a dimer that catalyzes the first step in the production of the branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]"
"ZC3HAV1","protein_coding","ENSG00000105939","This gene encodes a CCCH-type zinc finger protein. This antiviral protein inhibits viral replication by recruiting cellular RNA degradation machineries to degrade viral mRNAs. The encoded protein plays an important role in the innate immune response against multiple DNA and RNA viruses, including Ebola virus, HIV and SARS-CoV-2 (which causes COVID-19). [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2021]"
"CLDN15","protein_coding","ENSG00000106404","This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]"
"RARRES2","protein_coding","ENSG00000106538","This gene encodes a secreted chemotactic protein that initiates chemotaxis via the ChemR23 G protein-coupled seven-transmembrane domain ligand. Expression of this gene is upregulated by the synthetic retinoid tazarotene and occurs in a wide variety of tissues. The active protein has several roles, including that as an adipokine and as an antimicrobial protein with activity against bacteria and fungi. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]"
"AEBP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000106624","This gene encodes a member of carboxypeptidase A protein family. The encoded protein may function as a transcriptional repressor and play a role in adipogenesis and smooth muscle cell differentiation. Studies in mice suggest that this gene functions in wound healing and abdominal wall development. Overexpression of this gene is associated with glioblastoma. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]"
"ICAM2","protein_coding","ENSG00000108622","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM) family. All ICAM proteins are type I transmembrane glycoproteins, contain 2-9 immunoglobulin-like C2-type domains, and bind to the leukocyte adhesion LFA-1 protein. This protein may play a role in lymphocyte recirculation by blocking LFA-1-dependent cell adhesion. It mediates adhesive interactions important for antigen-specific immune response, NK-cell mediated clearance, lymphocyte recirculation, and other cellular interactions important for immune response and surveillance. Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"CLEC2B","protein_coding","ENSG00000110852","This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type 2 transmembrane protein may function as a cell activation antigen. An alternative splice variant has been described but its full-length sequence has not been determined. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"BCL6","protein_coding","ENSG00000113916","The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain. This protein acts as a sequence-specific repressor of transcription, and has been shown to modulate the transcription of STAT-dependent IL-4 responses of B cells. This protein can interact with a variety of POZ-containing proteins that function as transcription corepressors. This gene is found to be frequently translocated and hypermutated in diffuse large-cell lymphoma (DLCL), and may be involved in the pathogenesis of DLCL. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015]"
"STEAP3","protein_coding","ENSG00000115107","This gene encodes a multipass membrane protein that functions as an iron transporter. The encoded protein can reduce both iron (Fe3+) and copper (Cu2+) cations. This protein may mediate downstream responses to p53, including promoting apoptosis. Deficiency in this gene can cause anemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015]"
"ACVR1","protein_coding","ENSG00000115170","Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I ( I and IB) and two type II (II and IIB) receptors. These receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and II receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors. This gene encodes activin A type I receptor which signals a particular transcriptional response in concert with activin type II receptors. Mutations in this gene are associated with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"IL1R1","protein_coding","ENSG00000115594","This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that belongs to the interleukin-1 receptor family. The encoded protein is a receptor for interleukin-1 alpha, interleukin-1 beta, and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. It is an important mediator involved in many cytokine-induced immune and inflammatory responses. This gene is located in a cluster of related cytokine receptor genes on chromosome 2q12. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]"
"PRRX1","protein_coding","ENSG00000116132","The DNA-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the paired family of homeobox proteins localized to the nucleus. The protein functions as a transcription co-activator, enhancing the DNA-binding activity of serum response factor, a protein required for the induction of genes by growth and differentiation factors. The protein regulates muscle creatine kinase, indicating a role in the establishment of diverse mesodermal muscle types. Alternative splicing yields two isoforms that differ in abundance and expression patterns. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"CD58","protein_coding","ENSG00000116815","This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is a ligand of the T lymphocyte CD2 protein, and functions in adhesion and activation of T lymphocytes. The protein is localized to the plasma membrane. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]"
"ECE1","protein_coding","ENSG00000117298","The protein encoded by this gene is involved in proteolytic processing of endothelin precursors to biologically active peptides. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hirschsprung disease, cardiac defects and autonomic dysfunction. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]"
"PRDX6","protein_coding","ENSG00000117592","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the thiol-specific antioxidant protein family. This protein is a bifunctional enzyme with two distinct active sites. It is involved in redox regulation of the cell; it can reduce H(2)O(2) and short chain organic, fatty acid, and phospholipid hydroperoxides. It may play a role in the regulation of phospholipid turnover as well as in protection against oxidative injury. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"C1orf54","protein_coding","ENSG00000118292","Predicted to be located in extracellular region. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"IFI27L2","protein_coding","ENSG00000119632","Involved in apoptotic process. Located in mitochondrial membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"MLANA","protein_coding","ENSG00000120215","Located in endoplasmic reticulum membrane; melanosome; and trans-Golgi network. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"ELF1","protein_coding","ENSG00000120690","This gene encodes an E26 transformation-specific related transcription factor. The encoded protein is primarily expressed in lymphoid cells and acts as both an enhancer and a repressor to regulate transcription of various genes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]"
"TNFRSF10B","protein_coding","ENSG00000120889","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily, and contains an intracellular death domain. This receptor can be activated by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TNFSF10/TRAIL/APO-2L), and transduces an apoptosis signal. Studies with FADD-deficient mice suggested that FADD, a death domain containing adaptor protein, is required for the apoptosis mediated by this protein. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms and one non-coding transcript have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]"
"RAMP3","protein_coding","ENSG00000122679","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAMP family of single-transmembrane-domain proteins, called receptor (calcitonin) activity modifying proteins (RAMPs). RAMPs are type I transmembrane proteins with an extracellular N terminus and a cytoplasmic C terminus. RAMPs are required to transport calcitonin-receptor-like receptor (CRLR) to the plasma membrane. CRLR, a receptor with seven transmembrane domains, can function as either a calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor or an adrenomedullin receptor, depending on which members of the RAMP family are expressed. In the presence of this (RAMP3) protein, CRLR functions as an adrenomedullin receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"CALD1","protein_coding","ENSG00000122786","This gene encodes a calmodulin- and actin-binding protein that plays an essential role in the regulation of smooth muscle and nonmuscle contraction. The conserved domain of this protein possesses the binding activities to Ca(2+)-calmodulin, actin, tropomyosin, myosin, and phospholipids. This protein is a potent inhibitor of the actin-tropomyosin activated myosin MgATPase, and serves as a mediating factor for Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition of smooth muscle contraction. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"CHST3","protein_coding","ENSG00000122863","This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the sulfation of chondroitin, a proteoglycan found in the extracellular matrix and most cells which is involved in cell migration and differentiation. Mutations in this gene are associated with spondylepiphyseal dysplasia and humerospinal dysostosis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]"
"P4HA1","protein_coding","ENSG00000122884","This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzyme in collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two beta subunits. The encoded protein is one of several different types of alpha subunits and provides the major part of the catalytic site of the active enzyme. In collagen and related proteins, prolyl 4-hydroxylase catalyzes the formation of 4-hydroxyproline that is essential to the proper three-dimensional folding of newly synthesized procollagen chains. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ACADS","protein_coding","ENSG00000122971","This gene encodes a tetrameric mitochondrial flavoprotein, which is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. This enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. Mutations in this gene have been associated with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD) deficiency. Alternative splicing results in two variants which encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]"
"RASSF8","protein_coding","ENSG00000123094","This gene encodes a member of the Ras-assocation domain family (RASSF) of tumor suppressor proteins. This gene is essential for maintaining adherens junction function in epithelial cells and has a role in epithelial cell migration. It is a lung tumor suppressor gene candidate. A chromosomal translocation t(12;22)(p11.2;q13.3) leading to the fusion of this gene and the FBLN1 gene is found in a complex type of synpolydactyly. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]"
"SLC12A4","protein_coding","ENSG00000124067","This gene encodes a member of the SLC12A transporter family. The encoded protein mediates the coupled movement of potassium and chloride ions across the plasma membrane. This gene is expressed ubiquitously. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]"
"AHNAK","protein_coding","ENSG00000124942","The protein encoded by this gene is a large (700 kDa) structural scaffold protein consisting of a central domain with 128 aa repeats. The encoded protein may play a role in such diverse processes as blood-brain barrier formation, cell structure and migration, cardiac calcium channel regulation, and tumor metastasis. A much shorter variant encoding a 17 kDa isoform exists for this gene, and the shorter isoform initiates a feedback loop that regulates alternative splicing of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016]"
"VASP","protein_coding","ENSG00000125753","Vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) is a member of the Ena-VASP protein family. Ena-VASP family members contain an EHV1 N-terminal domain that binds proteins containing E/DFPPPPXD/E motifs and targets Ena-VASP proteins to focal adhesions. In the mid-region of the protein, family members have a proline-rich domain that binds SH3 and WW domain-containing proteins. Their C-terminal EVH2 domain mediates tetramerization and binds both G and F actin. VASP is associated with filamentous actin formation and likely plays a widespread role in cell adhesion and motility. VASP may also be involved in the intracellular signaling pathways that regulate integrin-extracellular matrix interactions. VASP is regulated by the cyclic nucleotide-dependent kinases PKA and PKG. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"AMOT","protein_coding","ENSG00000126016","This gene belongs to the motin family of angiostatin binding proteins characterized by conserved coiled-coil domains and C-terminal PDZ binding motifs. The encoded protein is expressed predominantly in endothelial cells of capillaries as well as larger vessels of the placenta where it may mediate the inhibitory effect of angiostatin on tube formation and the migration of endothelial cells toward growth factors during the formation of new blood vessels. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"TST","protein_coding","ENSG00000128311","This is one of two neighboring genes encoding similar proteins that each contain two rhodanese domains. The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondria and catalyzes the conversion of thiosulfate and cyanide to thiocyanate and sulfite. In addition, the protein interacts with 5S ribosomal RNA and facilitates its import into the mitochondria. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]"
"PODXL","protein_coding","ENSG00000128567","This gene encodes a member of the sialomucin protein family. The encoded protein was originally identified as an important component of glomerular podocytes. Podocytes are highly differentiated epithelial cells with interdigitating foot processes covering the outer aspect of the glomerular basement membrane. Other biological activities of the encoded protein include: binding in a membrane protein complex with Na+/H+ exchanger regulatory factor to intracellular cytoskeletal elements, playing a role in hematopoetic cell differentiation, and being expressed in vascular endothelium cells and binding to L-selectin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"SMO","protein_coding","ENSG00000128602","The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor that interacts with the patched protein, a receptor for hedgehog proteins. The encoded protein tranduces signals to other proteins after activation by a hedgehog protein/patched protein complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]"
"PALLD","protein_coding","ENSG00000129116","This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein that is required for organizing the actin cytoskeleton. The protein is a component of actin-containing microfilaments, and it is involved in the control of cell shape, adhesion, and contraction. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to pancreatic cancer type 1, and also with a risk for myocardial infarction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]"
"TEP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000129566","This gene product is a component of the ribonucleoprotein complex responsible for telomerase activity which catalyzes the addition of new telomeres on the chromosome ends. The telomerase-associated proteins are conserved from ciliates to humans. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016]"
"NECTIN2","protein_coding","ENSG00000130202","This gene encodes a single-pass type I membrane glycoprotein with two Ig-like C2-type domains and an Ig-like V-type domain. This protein is one of the plasma membrane components of adherens junctions. It also serves as an entry for certain mutant strains of herpes simplex virus and pseudorabies virus, and it is involved in cell to cell spreading of these viruses. Variations in this gene have been associated with differences in the severity of multiple sclerosis. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"APOE","protein_coding","ENSG00000130203","The protein encoded by this gene is a major apoprotein of the chylomicron. It binds to a specific liver and peripheral cell receptor, and is essential for the normal catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein constituents. This gene maps to chromosome 19 in a cluster with the related apolipoprotein C1 and C2 genes. Mutations in this gene result in familial dysbetalipoproteinemia, or type III hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP III), in which increased plasma cholesterol and triglycerides are the consequence of impaired clearance of chylomicron and VLDL remnants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2016]"
"PDLIM4","protein_coding","ENSG00000131435","Enables alpha-actinin binding activity; protein homodimerization activity; and protein phosphatase binding activity. Involved in actin cytoskeleton reorganization. Located in several cellular components, including lamellipodium; perinuclear region of cytoplasm; and stress fiber. Part of filamentous actin. Implicated in osteoporosis. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"TMEM204","protein_coding","ENSG00000131634","C16ORF30 plays a role in cell adhesion and cellular permeability at adherens junctions (Kearsey et al., 2004 [PubMed 15206924]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]"
"PPP1R1B","protein_coding","ENSG00000131771","This gene encodes a bifunctional signal transduction molecule. Dopaminergic and glutamatergic receptor stimulation regulates its phosphorylation and function as a kinase or phosphatase inhibitor. As a target for dopamine, this gene may serve as a therapeutic target for neurologic and psychiatric disorders. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]"
"ZNF20","protein_coding","ENSG00000132010","Predicted to enable DNA-binding transcription repressor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to be located in nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"RAMP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000132329","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RAMP family of single-transmembrane-domain proteins, called receptor (calcitonin) activity modifying proteins (RAMPs). RAMPs are type I transmembrane proteins with an extracellular N terminus and a cytoplasmic C terminus. RAMPs are required to transport calcitonin-receptor-like receptor (CRLR) to the plasma membrane. CRLR, a receptor with seven transmembrane domains, can function as either a calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor or an adrenomedullin receptor, depending on which members of the RAMP family are expressed. In the presence of this (RAMP1) protein, CRLR functions as a CGRP receptor. The RAMP1 protein is involved in the terminal glycosylation, maturation, and presentation of the CGRP receptor to the cell surface. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015]"
"CARD6","protein_coding","ENSG00000132357","This gene encodes a protein that contains a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), an antiparallel six-helical bundle that mediates homotypic protein-protein interactions. The encoded protein is a microtubule-associated protein that has been shown to interact with receptor-interacting protein kinases and positively modulate signal transduction pathways converging on activation of the inducible transcription factor NF-kB. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"RIN2","protein_coding","ENSG00000132669","The RAB5 protein is a small GTPase involved in membrane trafficking in the early endocytic pathway. The protein encoded by this gene binds the GTP-bound form of the RAB5 protein preferentially over the GDP-bound form, and functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for RAB5. The encoded protein is found primarily as a tetramer in the cytoplasm and does not bind other members of the RAB family. Mutations in this gene cause macrocephaly alopecia cutis laxa and scoliosis (MACS) syndrome, an elastic tissue disorder, as well as the related connective tissue disorder, RIN2 syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]"
"BHMT2","protein_coding","ENSG00000132840","Homocysteine is a sulfur-containing amino acid that plays a crucial role in methylation reactions. Transfer of the methyl group from betaine to homocysteine creates methionine, which donates the methyl group to methylate DNA, proteins, lipids, and other intracellular metabolites. The protein encoded by this gene is one of two methyl transferases that can catalyze the transfer of the methyl group from betaine to homocysteine. Anomalies in homocysteine metabolism have been implicated in disorders ranging from vascular disease to neural tube birth defects such as spina bifida. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]"
"SLC39A11","protein_coding","ENSG00000133195","Predicted to enable zinc ion transmembrane transporter activity. Predicted to be involved in zinc ion transmembrane transport. Predicted to be located in Golgi apparatus; nucleus; and plasma membrane. Predicted to be active in membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"GIMAP6","protein_coding","ENSG00000133561","This gene encodes a member of the GTPases of immunity-associated proteins (GIMAP) family. GIMAP proteins contain GTP-binding and coiled-coil motifs, and may play roles in the regulation of cell survival. Decreased expression of this gene may play a role in non-small cell lung cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, which is found in a cluster with seven additional GIMAP genes on the long arm of chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]"
"IL15RA","protein_coding","ENSG00000134470","This gene encodes a cytokine receptor that specifically binds interleukin 15 (IL15) with high affinity. The receptors of IL15 and IL2 share two subunits, IL2R beta and IL2R gamma. This forms the basis of many overlapping biological activities of IL15 and IL2. The protein encoded by this gene is structurally related to IL2R alpha, an additional IL2-specific alpha subunit necessary for high affinity IL2 binding. Unlike IL2RA, IL15RA is capable of binding IL15 with high affinity independent of other subunits, which suggests distinct roles between IL15 and IL2. This receptor is reported to enhance cell proliferation and expression of apoptosis inhibitor BCL2L1/BCL2-XL and BCL2. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been reported.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]"
"LRP4","protein_coding","ENSG00000134569","This gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein family. The encoded protein may be a regulator of Wnt signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with Cenani-Lenz syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]"
"DTNA","protein_coding","ENSG00000134769","The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dystrobrevin subfamily of the dystrophin family. This protein is a component of the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DPC), which consists of dystrophin and several integral and peripheral membrane proteins, including dystroglycans, sarcoglycans, syntrophins and alpha- and beta-dystrobrevin. The DPC localizes to the sarcolemma and its disruption is associated with various forms of muscular dystrophy. Mutations in this gene are associated with left ventricular noncompaction with congenital heart defects. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"TES","protein_coding","ENSG00000135269","Cancer-associated chromosomal changes often involve regions containing fragile sites. This gene maps to a commom fragile site on chromosome 7q31.2 designated FRA7G. This gene is similar to mouse Testin, a testosterone-responsive gene encoding a Sertoli cell secretory protein containing three LIM domains. LIM domains are double zinc-finger motifs that mediate protein-protein interactions between transcription factors, cytoskeletal proteins and signaling proteins. This protein is a negative regulator of cell growth and may act as a tumor suppressor. This scaffold protein may also play a role in cell adhesion, cell spreading and in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. Multiple protein isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]"
"AGT","protein_coding","ENSG00000135744","The protein encoded by this gene, pre-angiotensinogen or angiotensinogen precursor, is expressed in the liver and is cleaved by the enzyme renin in response to lowered blood pressure. The resulting product, angiotensin I, is then cleaved by angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) to generate the physiologically active enzyme angiotensin II. The protein is involved in maintaining blood pressure, body fluid and electrolyte homeostasis, and in the pathogenesis of essential hypertension and preeclampsia. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to essential hypertension, and can cause renal tubular dysgenesis, a severe disorder of renal tubular development. Defects in this gene have also been associated with non-familial structural atrial fibrillation, and inflammatory bowel disease. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2019]"
"GLUL","protein_coding","ENSG00000135821","The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the glutamine synthetase family. It catalyzes the synthesis of glutamine from glutamate and ammonia in an ATP-dependent reaction. This protein plays a role in ammonia and glutamate detoxification, acid-base homeostasis, cell signaling, and cell proliferation. Glutamine is an abundant amino acid, and is important to the biosynthesis of several amino acids, pyrimidines, and purines. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital glutamine deficiency, and overexpression of this gene was observed in some primary liver cancer samples. There are six pseudogenes of this gene found on chromosomes 2, 5, 9, 11, and 12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]"
"GYPC","protein_coding","ENSG00000136732","Glycophorin C (GYPC) is an integral membrane glycoprotein. It is a minor species carried by human erythrocytes, but plays an important role in regulating the mechanical stability of red cells. A number of glycophorin C mutations have been described. The Gerbich and Yus phenotypes are due to deletion of exon 3 and 2, respectively. The Webb and Duch antigens, also known as glycophorin D, result from single point mutations of the glycophorin C gene. The glycophorin C protein has very little homology with glycophorins A and B. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]"
"TLN1","protein_coding","ENSG00000137076","This gene encodes a cytoskeletal protein that is concentrated in areas of cell-substratum and cell-cell contacts. The encoded protein plays a significant role in the assembly of actin filaments and in spreading and migration of various cell types, including fibroblasts and osteoclasts. It codistributes with integrins in the cell surface membrane in order to assist in the attachment of adherent cells to extracellular matrices and of lymphocytes to other cells. The N-terminus of this protein contains elements for localization to cell-extracellular matrix junctions. The C-terminus contains binding sites for proteins such as beta-1-integrin, actin, and vinculin. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]"
"SLCO2B1","protein_coding","ENSG00000137491","This locus encodes a member of the organic anion-transporting polypeptide family of membrane proteins. The protein encoded by this locus may function in regulation of placental uptake of sulfated steroids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]"
"YAP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000137693","This gene encodes a downstream nuclear effector of the Hippo signaling pathway which is involved in development, growth, repair, and homeostasis. This gene is known to play a role in the development and progression of multiple cancers as a transcriptional regulator of this signaling pathway and may function as a potential target for cancer treatment. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]"
"SQOR","protein_coding","ENSG00000137767","The protein encoded by this gene may function in mitochondria to catalyze the conversion of sulfide to persulfides, thereby decreasing toxic concencrations of sulfide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]"
"DNA2","protein_coding","ENSG00000138346","This gene encodes a member of the DNA2/NAM7 helicase family. The encoded protein is a conserved helicase/nuclease involved in the maintenance of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA stability. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia-6 (PEOA6) and Seckel syndrome 8. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]"
"RGS3","protein_coding","ENSG00000138835","This gene encodes a member of the regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) family. This protein is a GTPase-activating protein that inhibits G-protein-mediated signal transduction. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Long isoforms are largely cytosolic and plasma membrane-associated with a function in Wnt signaling and in the epithelial mesenchymal transition, while shorter N-terminally-truncated isoforms can be nuclear. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]"
"PARVG","protein_coding","ENSG00000138964","Members of the parvin family, including PARVG, are actin-binding proteins associated with focal contacts.[supplied by OMIM, Aug 2004]"
"SINHCAF","protein_coding","ENSG00000139146","Involved in negative regulation of cell migration. Part of Sin3 complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"ESR2","protein_coding","ENSG00000140009","This gene encodes a member of the family of estrogen receptors and superfamily of nuclear receptor transcription factors. The gene product contains an N-terminal DNA binding domain and C-terminal ligand binding domain and is localized to the nucleus, cytoplasm, and mitochondria. Upon binding to 17beta-estradiol or related ligands, the encoded protein forms homo- or hetero-dimers that interact with specific DNA sequences to activate transcription. Some isoforms dominantly inhibit the activity of other estrogen receptor family members. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"FAM181A","protein_coding","ENSG00000140067",""
"CMTM3","protein_coding","ENSG00000140931","This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that is similar to the chemokine and the transmembrane 4 superfamilies of signaling molecules. This gene is one of several chemokine-like factor genes located in a cluster on chromosome 16. Alternatively spliced transcript variants containing different 5' UTRs, but encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"TP53","protein_coding","ENSG00000141510","This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptional activation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains. The encoded protein responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expression of target genes, thereby inducing cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, or changes in metabolism. Mutations in this gene are associated with a variety of human cancers, including hereditary cancers such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene and the use of alternate promoters result in multiple transcript variants and isoforms. Additional isoforms have also been shown to result from the use of alternate translation initiation codons from identical transcript variants (PMIDs: 12032546, 20937277). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2016]"
"MAPK4","protein_coding","ENSG00000141639","Mitogen-activated protein kinase 4 is a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family. Tyrosine kinase growth factor receptors activate mitogen-activated protein kinases which then translocate into the nucleus and phosphorylate nuclear targets. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]"
"MOB3C","protein_coding","ENSG00000142961","The protein encoded by this gene is similar to the yeast Mob1 protein. Yeast Mob1 binds Mps1p, a protein kinase essential for spindle pole body duplication and mitotic checkpoint regulation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"TBX19","protein_coding","ENSG00000143178","This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box. T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes. Mutations in this gene were found in patients with isolated deficiency of pituitary POMC-derived ACTH, suggesting an essential role for this gene in differentiation of the pituitary POMC lineage. ACTH deficiency is characterized by adrenal insufficiency symptoms such as weight loss, lack of appetite (anorexia), weakness, nausea, vomiting, and low blood pressure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"SELENBP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000143416","This gene encodes a member of the selenium-binding protein family. Selenium is an essential nutrient that exhibits potent anticarcinogenic properties, and deficiency of selenium may cause certain neurologic diseases. The effects of selenium in preventing cancer and neurologic diseases may be mediated by selenium-binding proteins, and decreased expression of this gene may be associated with several types of cancer. The encoded protein may play a selenium-dependent role in ubiquitination/deubiquitination-mediated protein degradation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]"
"GABPB2","protein_coding","ENSG00000143458","Enables transcription cis-regulatory region binding activity. Acts upstream of or within positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"TP53BP2","protein_coding","ENSG00000143514","This gene encodes a member of the ASPP (apoptosis-stimulating protein of p53) family of p53 interacting proteins. The protein contains four ankyrin repeats and an SH3 domain involved in protein-protein interactions. It is localized to the perinuclear region of the cytoplasm, and regulates apoptosis and cell growth through interactions with other regulatory molecules including members of the p53 family. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ITPKB","protein_coding","ENSG00000143772","The protein encoded by this protein regulates inositol phosphate metabolism by phosphorylation of second messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate to Ins(1,3,4,5)P4. The activity of this encoded protein is responsible for regulating the levels of a large number of inositol polyphosphates that are important in cellular signaling. Both calcium/calmodulin and protein phosphorylation mechanisms control its activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"GALM","protein_coding","ENSG00000143891","This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the epimerization of hexose sugars such as glucose and galactose. The encoded protein is expressed in the cytoplasm and has a preference for galactose. The encoded protein may be required for normal galactose metabolism by maintaining the equilibrium of alpha and beta anomers of galactose.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]"
"LYG1","protein_coding","ENSG00000144214","Predicted to enable lysozyme activity. Predicted to be involved in defense response to Gram-positive bacterium. Predicted to be active in extracellular region. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"IL17RD","protein_coding","ENSG00000144730","This gene encodes a membrane protein belonging to the interleukin-17 receptor (IL-17R) protein family. The encoded protein is a component of the interleukin-17 receptor signaling complex, and the interaction between this protein and IL-17R does not require the interleukin. The gene product also affects fibroblast growth factor signaling, inhibiting or stimulating growth through MAPK/ERK signaling. Alternate splicing generates multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016]"
"LIMD1","protein_coding","ENSG00000144791","Predicted to enable transcription corepressor activity. Involved in several processes, including negative regulation of hippo signaling; regulation of gene expression; and response to hypoxia. Acts upstream of or within P-body assembly and gene silencing by miRNA. Located in several cellular components, including P-body; adherens junction; and focal adhesion. Part of RISC complex. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"PLA1A","protein_coding","ENSG00000144837","The protein encoded by this gene is a phospholipase that hydrolyzes fatty acids at the sn-1 position of phosphatidylserine and 1-acyl-2-lysophosphatidylserine. This secreted protein hydrolyzes phosphatidylserine in liposomes. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]"
"USP53","protein_coding","ENSG00000145390","Predicted to enable thiol-dependent deubiquitinase. Predicted to be involved in response to auditory stimulus and sensory perception of sound. Predicted to act upstream of or within action potential and neuron apoptotic process. Predicted to be located in bicellular tight junction. Predicted to be active in cell-cell junction. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"LHFPL2","protein_coding","ENSG00000145685","This gene is a member of the lipoma HMGIC fusion partner (LHFP) gene family, which is a subset of the superfamily of tetraspan transmembrane protein encoding genes. Mutations in one LHFP-like gene result in deafness in humans and mice, and a second LHFP-like gene is fused to a high-mobility group gene in a translocation-associated lipoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"CYP39A1","protein_coding","ENSG00000146233","This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein is involved in the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids. Its substrates include the oxysterols 25-hydroxycholesterol, 27-hydroxycholesterol and 24-hydroxycholesterol. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]"
"TMEM47","protein_coding","ENSG00000147027","This gene encodes a member of the PMP22/EMP/claudin protein family. The encoded protein is localized to the ER and the plasma membrane. In dogs, transcripts of this gene exist at high levels in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"RAB41","protein_coding","ENSG00000147127","This gene encodes a small GTP-binding protein that belongs to the largest family within the Ras superfamily. These proteins function as regulators of membrane trafficking. They cycle between inactive GDP-bound and activated GTP-bound states, which is controlled by GTP hydrolysis-activating proteins (GAPs). This family member can be activated by the GAP protein RN-Tre, and it is localized to the Golgi complex. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]"
"GNRH1","protein_coding","ENSG00000147437","This gene encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate a peptide that is a member of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) family of peptides. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which is secreted and then cleaved to generate gonadoliberin-1 and GnRH-associated peptide 1. Gonadoliberin-1 stimulates the release of luteinizing and follicle stimulating hormones, which are important for reproduction. Mutations in this gene are associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015]"
"DOCK5","protein_coding","ENSG00000147459","This gene encodes a member of the dedicator of cytokinesis protein family. Members of this family act as guanine nucleotide exchange factors for small Rho family G proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to associate with adaptors CRK and CRKL, and function in regulation of intestinal epithelial cell spreading and migration on collagen IV. Similar proteins in mouse and zebrafish also function in myoblast fusion. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016]"
"ITPRIP","protein_coding","ENSG00000148841","This gene encodes a membrane-associated protein that binds the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (ITPR). The encoded protein enhances the sensitivity of ITPR to intracellular calcium signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]"
"ADAM12","protein_coding","ENSG00000148848","This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that are structurally related to snake venom disintegrins and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. Expression of this gene has been used as a maternal serum marker for pre-natal development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Shorter isoforms are secreted, while longer isoforms are membrane-bound form. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]"
"FERMT3","protein_coding","ENSG00000149781","Kindlins are a small family of proteins that mediate protein-protein interactions involved in integrin activation and thereby have a role in cell adhesion, migration, differentiation, and proliferation. The protein encoded by this gene has a key role in the regulation of hemostasis and thrombosis. This protein may also help maintain the membrane skeleton of erythrocytes. Mutations in this gene cause the autosomal recessive leukocyte adhesion deficiency syndrome-III (LAD-III). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]"
"ITGB1","protein_coding","ENSG00000150093","Integrins are heterodimeric proteins made up of alpha and beta subunits. At least 18 alpha and 8 beta subunits have been described in mammals. Integrin family members are membrane receptors involved in cell adhesion and recognition in a variety of processes including embryogenesis, hemostasis, tissue repair, immune response and metastatic diffusion of tumor cells. This gene encodes a beta subunit. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants which encode different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"LATS2","protein_coding","ENSG00000150457","This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase belonging to the LATS tumor suppressor family. The protein localizes to centrosomes during interphase, and early and late metaphase. It interacts with the centrosomal proteins aurora-A and ajuba and is required for accumulation of gamma-tubulin and spindle formation at the onset of mitosis. It also interacts with a negative regulator of p53 and may function in a positive feedback loop with p53 that responds to cytoskeleton damage. Additionally, it can function as a co-repressor of androgen-responsive gene expression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"DLG5","protein_coding","ENSG00000151208","This gene encodes a member of the family of discs large (DLG) homologs, a subset of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) superfamily. The MAGUK proteins are composed of a catalytically inactive guanylate kinase domain, in addition to PDZ and SH3 domains, and are thought to function as scaffolding molecules at sites of cell-cell contact. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the plasma membrane and cytoplasm, and interacts with components of adherens junctions and the cytoskeleton. It is proposed to function in the transmission of extracellular signals to the cytoskeleton and in the maintenance of epithelial cell structure. Alternative splice variants have been described but their biological nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"HSPB8","protein_coding","ENSG00000152137","The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the superfamily of small heat-shock proteins containing a conservative alpha-crystallin domain at the C-terminal part of the molecule. The expression of this gene in induced by estrogen in estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer cells, and this protein also functions as a chaperone in association with Bag3, a stimulator of macroautophagy. Thus, this gene appears to be involved in regulation of cell proliferation, apoptosis, and carcinogenesis, and mutations in this gene have been associated with different neuromuscular diseases, including Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"TMEM123","protein_coding","ENSG00000152558","This gene encodes a highly glycosylated transmembrane protein with a high content of threonine and serine residues in its extracellular domain, similar to a broadly defined category of proteins termed mucins. Exposure of some cell types to anti-PORIMIN (pro-oncosis receptor inducing membrane injury) antibody, crosslinks this protein on the cell surface and induces a type of cell death termed oncosis. Oncosis is distinct from apoptosis and is characterized by a loss of cell membrane integrity without DNA fragmentation. This gene product is proposed to function as a cell surface receptor that mediates cell death. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"BMP6","protein_coding","ENSG00000153162","This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer. This protein regulates a wide range of biological processes including iron homeostasis, fat and bone development, and ovulation. Differential expression of this gene may be associated with progression of breast and prostate cancer. Mutations in this gene may be associated with iron overload in human patients. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016]"
"RASSF3","protein_coding","ENSG00000153179","The RAS oncogene (MIM 190020) is mutated in nearly one-third of all human cancers. Members of the RAS superfamily are plasma membrane GTP-binding proteins that modulate intracellular signal transduction pathways. A subfamily of RAS effectors, including RASSF3, share a RAS association (RA) domain.[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2003]"
"CMTM7","protein_coding","ENSG00000153551","This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that is similar to the chemokine and transmembrane 4 superfamilies. This gene is one of several chemokine-like factor genes located in a cluster on chromosome 3. This gene acts as a tumor suppressor that regulates G1/S transition in the cell cycle, and epidermal growth factor receptor/protein kinase B signaling during tumor pathogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016]"
"C4orf19","protein_coding","ENSG00000154274","Located in cell junction and nucleoplasm. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"FGD5","protein_coding","ENSG00000154783","Predicted to enable guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and small GTPase binding activity. Predicted to be involved in several processes, including filopodium assembly; regulation of GTPase activity; and regulation of cell shape. Located in plasma membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"DBI","protein_coding","ENSG00000155368","This gene encodes diazepam binding inhibitor, a protein that is regulated by hormones and is involved in lipid metabolism and the displacement of beta-carbolines and benzodiazepines, which modulate signal transduction at type A gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors located in brain synapses. The protein is conserved from yeast to mammals, with the most highly conserved domain consisting of seven contiguous residues that constitute the hydrophobic binding site for medium- and long-chain acyl-Coenzyme A esters. Diazepam binding inhibitor is also known to mediate the feedback regulation of pancreatic secretion and the postprandial release of cholecystokinin, in addition to its role as a mediator in corticotropin-dependent adrenal steroidogenesis. Three pseudogenes located on chromosomes 6, 8 and 16 have been identified. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"FZD7","protein_coding","ENSG00000155760"," Members of the 'frizzled' gene family encode 7-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for Wnt signaling proteins.  The FZD7 protein contains an N-terminal signal sequence, 10 cysteine residues typical of the cysteine-rich extracellular domain of Fz family members, 7 putative transmembrane domains, and an intracellular C-terminal tail with a PDZ domain-binding motif.  FZD7 gene expression may downregulate APC function and enhance beta-catenin-mediated signals in poorly differentiated human esophageal carcinomas. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"MMP14","protein_coding","ENSG00000157227","Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases. However, the protein encoded by this gene is a member of the membrane-type MMP (MT-MMP) subfamily; each member of this subfamily contains a potential transmembrane domain suggesting that these proteins are expressed at the cell surface rather than secreted. This protein activates MMP2 protein, and this activity may be involved in tumor invasion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ARSL","protein_coding","ENSG00000157399","Arylsulfatase E is a member of the sulfatase family. It is glycosylated postranslationally and localized to the golgi apparatus. Sulfatases are essential for the correct composition of bone and cartilage matrix. X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata, a disease characterized by abnormalities in cartilage and bone development, has been linked to mutations in this gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene related to this gene is located on the Y chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]"
"AFAP1L1","protein_coding","ENSG00000157510","Predicted to enable SH3 domain binding activity. Predicted to be located in cell junction; cell projection; and podosome. Predicted to be active in cytosol. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"ERG","protein_coding","ENSG00000157554","This gene encodes a member of the erythroblast transformation-specific (ETS) family of transcriptions factors. All members of this family are key regulators of embryonic development, cell proliferation, differentiation, angiogenesis, inflammation, and apoptosis. The protein encoded by this gene is mainly expressed in the nucleus. It contains an ETS DNA-binding domain and a PNT (pointed) domain which is implicated in the self-association of chimeric oncoproteins. This protein is required for platelet adhesion to the subendothelium, inducing vascular cell remodeling. It also regulates hematopoesis, and the differentiation and maturation of megakaryocytic cells. This gene is involved in chromosomal translocations, resulting in different fusion gene products, such as TMPSSR2-ERG and NDRG1-ERG in prostate cancer, EWS-ERG in Ewing's sarcoma and FUS-ERG in acute myeloid leukemia. More than two dozens of transcript variants generated from combinatorial usage of three alternative promoters and multiple alternative splicing events have been reported, but the full-length nature of many of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]"
"WASF2","protein_coding","ENSG00000158195","This gene encodes a member of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein family. The gene product is a protein that forms a multiprotein complex that links receptor kinases and actin. Binding to actin occurs through a C-terminal verprolin homology domain in all family members. The multiprotein complex serves to tranduce signals that involve changes in cell shape, motility or function. The published map location (PMID:10381382) has been changed based on recent genomic sequence comparisons, which indicate that the expressed gene is located on chromosome 1, and a pseudogene may be located on chromosome X. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]"
"ITGA5","protein_coding","ENSG00000161638","The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha subunit and a beta subunit that function in cell surface adhesion and signaling. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that comprise the alpha 5 subunit. This subunit associates with the beta 1 subunit to form a fibronectin receptor. This integrin may promote tumor invasion, and higher expression of this gene may be correlated with shorter survival time in lung cancer patients. Note that the integrin alpha 5 and integrin alpha V subunits are encoded by distinct genes. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015]"
"CCDC78","protein_coding","ENSG00000162004","Involved in de novo centriole assembly involved in multi-ciliated epithelial cell differentiation and skeletal muscle contraction. Located in several cellular components, including centriole; deuterosome; and sarcolemma. Implicated in centronuclear myopathy 4. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"TAL1","protein_coding","ENSG00000162367","Enables several functions, including DNA-binding transcription factor activity; E-box binding activity; and histone deacetylase binding activity. Involved in several processes, including myeloid cell differentiation; positive regulation of cellular component organization; and positive regulation of erythrocyte differentiation. Located in chromatin and nucleoplasm. Part of transcription regulator complex. Implicated in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"DDR2","protein_coding","ENSG00000162733","This gene encodes a member of the discoidin domain receptor subclass of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTKs) protein family. RTKs play a key role in the communication of cells with their microenvironment. The encoded protein is a collagen-induced receptor that activates signal transduction pathways involved in cell adhesion, proliferation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. This protein is expressed in numerous cell types and may alos be involved in wound repair and regulate tumor growth and invasiveness. Mutations in this gene are the cause of short limb-hand type spondylometaepiphyseal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]"
"MAPKAPK2","protein_coding","ENSG00000162889","This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This kinase is regulated through direct phosphorylation by p38 MAP kinase. In conjunction with p38 MAP kinase, this kinase is known to be involved in many cellular processes including stress and inflammatory responses, nuclear export, gene expression regulation and cell proliferation. Heat shock protein HSP27 was shown to be one of the substrates of this kinase in vivo. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"TGFBR2","protein_coding","ENSG00000163513","The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane protein that has a protein kinase domain, forms a heterodimeric complex with TGF-beta receptor type-1, and binds TGF-beta. This receptor/ligand complex phosphorylates proteins, which then enter the nucleus and regulate the transcription of genes related to cell proliferation, cell cycle arrest, wound healing, immunosuppression, and tumorigenesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Marfan Syndrome, Loeys-Deitz Aortic Aneurysm Syndrome, and the development of various types of tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]"
"DTX3L","protein_coding","ENSG00000163840","Enables several functions, including STAT family protein binding activity; ubiquitin-like protein ligase binding activity; and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. Involved in several processes, including positive regulation of macromolecule metabolic process; positive regulation of protein localization; and protein ubiquitination. Located in cytosol; lysosome; and nucleoplasm. Part of protein-containing complex. Colocalizes with early endosome and nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"KLF15","protein_coding","ENSG00000163884","Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in negative regulation of peptidyl-lysine acetylation and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in nuclear speck. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"SHROOM1","protein_coding","ENSG00000164403","SHROOM family members play diverse roles in the development of the nervous system and other tissues (Hagens et al., 2006 [PubMed 16615870]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]"
"MICALL2","protein_coding","ENSG00000164877","Enables filamin binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of protein targeting to mitochondrion. Predicted to be located in several cellular components, including bicellular tight junction; neuron projection; and recycling endosome. Predicted to colocalize with stress fiber. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"ALDH7A1","protein_coding","ENSG00000164904","The protein encoded by this gene is a member of subfamily 7 in the aldehyde dehydrogenase gene family. These enzymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. This particular member has homology to a previously described protein from the green garden pea, the 26g pea turgor protein. It is also involved in lysine catabolism that is known to occur in the mitochondrial matrix. Recent reports show that this protein is found both in the cytosol and the mitochondria, and the two forms likely arise from the use of alternative translation initiation sites. An additional variant encoding a different isoform has also been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene are associated with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. Several related pseudogenes have also been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]"
"HEPACAM","protein_coding","ENSG00000165478","The protein encoded by this gene is a single-pass type I membrane protein that localizes to the cytoplasmic side of the cell membrane. The encoded protein acts as a homodimer and is involved in cell motility and cell-matrix interactions. The expression of this gene is downregulated or undetectable in many cancer cell lines, so this may be a tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]"
"CASP7","protein_coding","ENSG00000165806","This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. The precursor of the encoded protein is cleaved by caspase 3 and 10, is activated upon cell death stimuli and induces apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]"
"IKBIP","protein_coding","ENSG00000166130","Predicted to be involved in response to X-ray. Located in endoplasmic reticulum. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"A2ML1","protein_coding","ENSG00000166535","This gene encodes a member of the alpha-macroglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is thought to be an N-glycosylated monomeric protein that acts as an inhibitor of several proteases. It has been shown to form covalent interactions with proteases, and has been reported as the p170 antigen recognized by autoantibodies in the autoimmune disease paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP; PMID:20805888). Mutations in these gene have also been associated with some cases of Noonan syndrome (NS; PMID:24939586) as well as some cases of otitis media (PMID:26121085). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015]"
"KIF7","protein_coding","ENSG00000166813","This gene encodes a cilia-associated protein belonging to the kinesin family. This protein plays a role in the sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling pathway through the regulation of GLI transcription factors. It functions as a negative regulator of the SHH pathway by preventing inappropriate activation of GLI2 in the absence of ligand, and as a positive regulator by preventing the processing of GLI3 into its repressor form. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various ciliopathies. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]"
"SERTAD3","protein_coding","ENSG00000167565","The protein encoded by this gene was identified in a yeast two-hybrid assay employing the second subunit of human replication protein A as bait. It is localized to the nucleus and its expression is significantly higher in cancer cell lines compared to normal cell lines. This protein has also been shown to be a strong transcriptional co-activator. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and two variants, both encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"TRPV3","protein_coding","ENSG00000167723","This gene product belongs to a family of nonselective cation channels that function in a variety of processes, including temperature sensation and vasoregulation. The thermosensitive members of this family are expressed in subsets of sensory neurons that terminate in the skin, and are activated at distinct physiological temperatures. This channel is activated at temperatures between 22 and 40 degrees C. This gene lies in close proximity to another family member gene on chromosome 17, and the two encoded proteins are thought to associate with each other to form heteromeric channels. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]"
"TMC8","protein_coding","ENSG00000167895","Epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV) is an autosomal recessive dermatosis characterized by abnormal susceptibility to human papillomaviruses (HPVs) and a high rate of progression to squamous cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin. EV is caused by mutations in either of two adjacent genes located on chromosome 17q25.3. Both of these genes encode integral membrane proteins that localize to the endoplasmic reticulum and are predicted to form transmembrane channels. This gene encodes a transmembrane channel-like protein with 8 predicted transmembrane domains and 3 leucine zipper motifs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"RAB3IL1","protein_coding","ENSG00000167994","This gene encodes a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the ras-related protein Rab3A. The encoded protein binds Rab3a and the inositol hexakisphosphate kinase InsP6K1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]"
"MLKL","protein_coding","ENSG00000168404","This gene belongs to the protein kinase superfamily. The encoded protein contains a protein kinase-like domain; however, is thought to be inactive because it lacks several residues required for activity. This protein plays a critical role in tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced necroptosis, a programmed cell death process, via interaction with receptor-interacting protein 3 (RIP3), which is a key signaling molecule in necroptosis pathway. Inhibitor studies and knockdown of this gene inhibited TNF-induced necrosis. High levels of this protein and RIP3 are associated with inflammatory bowel disease in children. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015]"
"BMP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000168487","This gene encodes a protein that is capable of inducing formation of cartilage in vivo. Although other bone morphogenetic proteins are members of the TGF-beta superfamily, this gene encodes a protein that is not closely related to other known growth factors. This gene is expressed as alternatively spliced variants that share an N-terminal protease domain but differ in their C-terminal region. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]"
"ATOH8","protein_coding","ENSG00000168874","Enables DNA-binding transcription factor activity and E-box binding activity. Involved in several processes, including SMAD protein signal transduction; positive regulation of endothelial cell differentiation; and regulation of gene expression. Located in nucleoplasm. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"TNIP2","protein_coding","ENSG00000168884","This gene encodes a protein which acts as an inhibitor of NFkappaB activation. The encoded protein is also involved in MAP/ERK signaling pathway in specific cell types. It may be involved in apoptosis of endothelial cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene related to this gene is located on the X chromosome.[provided by RefSeq, May 2014]"
"VAMP5","protein_coding","ENSG00000168899","Synaptobrevins/VAMPs, syntaxins, and the 25-kD synaptosomal-associated protein are the main components of a protein complex involved in the docking and/or fusion of vesicles and cell membranes. The VAMP5 gene is a member of the vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)/synaptobrevin family and the SNARE superfamily. This VAMP family member may participate in vesicle trafficking events that are associated with myogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"PXDC1","protein_coding","ENSG00000168994","Predicted to enable phosphatidylinositol binding activity. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"SDC2","protein_coding","ENSG00000169439","The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparan sulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family. The syndecans mediate cell binding, cell signaling, and cytoskeletal organization and syndecan receptors are required for internalization of the HIV-1 tat protein. The syndecan-2 protein functions as an integral membrane protein and participates in cell proliferation, cell migration and cell-matrix interactions via its receptor for extracellular matrix proteins. Altered syndecan-2 expression has been detected in several different tumor types. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"PFKFB3","protein_coding","ENSG00000170525","The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of bifunctional proteins that are involved in both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, a regulatory molecule that controls glycolysis in eukaryotes. The encoded protein has a 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase activity that catalyzes the synthesis of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate (F2,6BP), and a fructose-2,6-biphosphatase activity that catalyzes the degradation of F2,6BP. This protein is required for cell cycle progression and prevention of apoptosis. It functions as a regulator of cyclin-dependent kinase 1, linking glucose metabolism to cell proliferation and survival in tumor cells. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016]"
"GIMAP8","protein_coding","ENSG00000171115","This gene encodes a protein belonging to the GTP-binding superfamily and to the immuno-associated nucleotide (IAN) subfamily of nucleotide-binding proteins. In humans, the IAN subfamily genes are located in a cluster at 7q36.1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"GATM","protein_coding","ENSG00000171766","This gene encodes a mitochondrial enzyme that belongs to the amidinotransferase family. This enzyme is involved in creatine biosynthesis, whereby it catalyzes the transfer of a guanido group from L-arginine to glycine, resulting in guanidinoacetic acid, the immediate precursor of creatine. Mutations in this gene cause arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency, an inborn error of creatine synthesis characterized by cognitive disability, language impairment, and behavioral disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"SLFN12","protein_coding","ENSG00000172123","Predicted to act upstream of or within negative regulation of cell population proliferation. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"SNX33","protein_coding","ENSG00000173548","The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cytoskeletal reorganization, vesicle trafficking, endocytosis, and mitosis. The encoded protein is essential for the creation of the cleavage furrow during mitosis and for completion of mitosis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015]"
"MARCHF3","protein_coding","ENSG00000173926","This gene encodes a member of the membrane-associated RING-CH (MARCH) family. The encoded protein is an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that may be involved in regulation of the endosomal transport pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]"
"GNG5","protein_coding","ENSG00000174021","G proteins are trimeric (alpha-beta-gamma) membrane-associated proteins that regulate flow of information from cell surface receptors to a variety of internal metabolic effectors. Interaction of a G protein with its activated receptor promotes exchange of GTP for GDP that is bound to the alpha subunit. The alpha-GTP complex dissociates from the beta-gamma heterodimer so that the subunits, in turn, may interact with and regulate effector molecules (Gilman, 1987 [PubMed 3113327]; summary by Ahmad et al., 1995) [PubMed 7606925].[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]"
"ETV4","protein_coding","ENSG00000175832","Enables DNA-binding transcription activator activity, RNA polymerase II-specific and RNA polymerase II cis-regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Involved in positive regulation of keratinocyte differentiation and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Located in chromosome and nucleolus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"LINC01561","lncRNA","ENSG00000177234",""
"PAWR","protein_coding","ENSG00000177425","This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that selectively induces apoptosis in cancer cells through intracellular and extracellular mechanisms. The intracellular mechanism involves the inhibition of pro-survival pathways and the activation of Fas-mediated apoptosis, while the extracellular mechanism involves the binding of a secreted form of this protein to glucose regulated protein 78 (GRP78) on the cell surface, which leads to activation of the extrinsic apoptotic pathway. This gene is located on the unstable human chromosomal 12q21 region and is often deleted or mutated different tumors. The encoded protein also plays an important role in the progression of age-related diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017]"
"LDLRAD3","protein_coding","ENSG00000179241","Predicted to enable amyloid-beta binding activity. Predicted to act upstream of or within receptor-mediated endocytosis and regulation of protein processing. Predicted to be located in membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"SOX2","protein_coding","ENSG00000181449","This intronless gene encodes a member of the SRY-related HMG-box (SOX) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of cell fate. The product of this gene is required for stem-cell maintenance in the central nervous system, and also regulates gene expression in the stomach. Mutations in this gene have been associated with optic nerve hypoplasia and with syndromic microphthalmia, a severe form of structural eye malformation. This gene lies within an intron of another gene called SOX2 overlapping transcript (SOX2OT). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"RELL1","protein_coding","ENSG00000181826","Involved in positive regulation of p38MAPK cascade. Located in microtubule cytoskeleton and plasma membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"FAM89A","protein_coding","ENSG00000182118",""
"BACE2","protein_coding","ENSG00000182240","This gene encodes an integral membrane glycoprotein that functions as an aspartic protease. The encoded protein cleaves amyloid precursor protein into amyloid beta peptide, which is a critical step in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome. The protein precursor is further processed into an active mature peptide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]"
"SPACA6","protein_coding","ENSG00000182310","Predicted to be involved in fusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization. Predicted to be located in acrosomal vesicle. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"FES","protein_coding","ENSG00000182511","This gene encodes the human cellular counterpart of a feline sarcoma retrovirus protein with transforming capabilities. The gene product has tyrosine-specific protein kinase activity and that activity is required for maintenance of cellular transformation. Its chromosomal location has linked it to a specific translocation event identified in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia but it is also involved in normal hematopoiesis as well as growth factor and cytokine receptor signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]"
"PTTG1IP","protein_coding","ENSG00000183255","This gene encodes a single-pass type I integral membrane protein, which binds to pituitary tumor-transforming 1 protein (PTTG1), and facilitates translocation of PTTG1 into the nucleus. Coexpression of this protein and PTTG1 induces transcriptional activation of basic fibroblast growth factor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]"
"PRKX","protein_coding","ENSG00000183943","This gene encodes a serine threonine protein kinase that has similarity to the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP dependent protein kinases. The encoded protein is developmentally regulated and may be involved in renal epithelial morphogenesis. This protein may also be involved in macrophage and granulocyte maturation. Abnormal recombination between this gene and a related pseudogene on chromosome Y is a frequent cause of sex reversal disorder in XX males and XY females. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes X, 15 and Y. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]"
"CSF1","protein_coding","ENSG00000184371","The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of macrophages. The active form of the protein is found extracellularly as a disulfide-linked homodimer, and is thought to be produced by proteolytic cleavage of membrane-bound precursors. The encoded protein may be involved in development of the placenta. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]"
"IRF7","protein_coding","ENSG00000185507","This gene encodes interferon regulatory factor 7, a member of the interferon regulatory transcription factor (IRF) family. It has been shown to play a role in the transcriptional activation of virus-inducible cellular genes, including interferon beta chain genes. Inducible expression of IRF7 is largely restricted to lymphoid tissue. The encoded protein plays an important role in the innate immune response against DNA and RNA viruses. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2021]"
"ZFP36L1","protein_coding","ENSG00000185650","This gene is a member of the TIS11 family of early response genes, which are induced by various agonists such as the phorbol ester TPA and the polypeptide mitogen EGF. This gene is well conserved across species and has a promoter that contains motifs seen in other early-response genes. The encoded protein contains a distinguishing putative zinc finger domain with a repeating cys-his motif. This putative nuclear transcription factor most likely functions in regulating the response to growth factors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]"
"EIF4EBP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000187840","This gene encodes one member of a family of translation repressor proteins. The protein directly interacts with eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), which is a limiting component of the multisubunit complex that recruits 40S ribosomal subunits to the 5' end of mRNAs. Interaction of this protein with eIF4E inhibits complex assembly and represses translation. This protein is phosphorylated in response to various signals including UV irradiation and insulin signaling, resulting in its dissociation from eIF4E and activation of mRNA translation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"S100A16","protein_coding","ENSG00000188643","Enables calcium ion binding activity and protein homodimerization activity. Predicted to act upstream of or within response to calcium ion. Located in several cellular components, including cytosol; extracellular space; and nucleolus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"AKR1C3","protein_coding","ENSG00000196139","This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols by utilizing NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme catalyzes the reduction of prostaglandin (PG) D2, PGH2 and phenanthrenequinone (PQ), and the oxidation of 9alpha,11beta-PGF2 to PGD2. It may play an important role in the pathogenesis of allergic diseases such as asthma, and may also have a role in controlling cell growth and/or differentiation. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]"
"GIMAP5","protein_coding","ENSG00000196329","This gene encodes a protein belonging to the GTP-binding superfamily and to the immuno-associated nucleotide (IAN) subfamily of nucleotide-binding proteins. In humans, the IAN subfamily genes are located in a cluster at 7q36.1. This gene encodes an antiapoptotic protein that functions in T-cell survival. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with systemic lupus erythematosus. Read-through transcription exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream GIMAP1 (GTPase, IMAP family member 1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]"
"SRGAP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000196935","The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase activator, working with the GTPase CDC42 to negatively regulate neuronal migration. The encoded protein interacts with the transmembrane receptor ROBO1 to inactivate CDC42. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016]"
"CASP4","protein_coding","ENSG00000196954","This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain and a large and small protease subunit. Activation of caspases requires proteolytic processing at conserved internal aspartic residues to generate a heterodimeric enzyme consisting of the large and small subunits. This caspase is able to cleave and activate its own precursor protein, as well as caspase 1 precursor. When overexpressed, this gene induces cell apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ACSL5","protein_coding","ENSG00000197142","The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. This isozyme is highly expressed in uterus and spleen, and in trace amounts in normal brain, but has markedly increased levels in malignant gliomas. This gene functions in mediating fatty acid-induced glioma cell growth. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"RAMP2-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000197291",""
"MYO1C","protein_coding","ENSG00000197879","This gene encodes a member of the unconventional myosin protein family, which are actin-based molecular motors. The protein is found in the cytoplasm, and one isoform with a unique N-terminus is also found in the nucleus. The nuclear isoform associates with RNA polymerase I and II and functions in transcription initiation. The mouse ortholog of this protein also functions in intracellular vesicle transport to the plasma membrane. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The related gene myosin IE has been referred to as myosin IC in the literature, but it is a distinct locus on chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ZNF69","protein_coding","ENSG00000198429","Enables identical protein binding activity. Predicted to be involved in negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Predicted to be located in nucleus. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"BAZ1A","protein_coding","ENSG00000198604","The BAZ1A gene encodes the accessory subunit of the ATP-dependent chromatin assembly factor (ACF), a member of the ISWI ('imitation switch') family of chromatin remodeling complexes (summarized by Racki et al., 2009 [PubMed 20033039]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010]"
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000203472","no information"
"LINC00862","lncRNA","ENSG00000203721","Predicted to be integral component of membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"PSMB8","protein_coding","ENSG00000204264","The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex with a highly ordered ring-shaped 20S core structure. The core structure is composed of 4 rings of 28 non-identical subunits; 2 rings are composed of 7 alpha subunits and 2 rings are composed of 7 beta subunits. Proteasomes are distributed throughout eukaryotic cells at a high concentration and cleave peptides in an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent process in a non-lysosomal pathway. An essential function of a modified proteasome, the immunoproteasome, is the processing of class I MHC peptides. This gene encodes a member of the proteasome B-type family, also known as the T1B family, that is a 20S core beta subunit. This gene is located in the class II region of the MHC (major histocompatibility complex). Expression of this gene is induced by gamma interferon and this gene product replaces catalytic subunit 3 (proteasome beta 5 subunit) in the immunoproteasome. Proteolytic processing is required to generate a mature subunit. Two alternative transcripts encoding two isoforms have been identified; both isoforms are processed to yield the same mature subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"ITPRIPL2","protein_coding","ENSG00000205730","Predicted to be integral component of membrane. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"HLA-A","protein_coding","ENSG00000206503","HLA-A belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues. This class I molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain (beta-2 microglobulin). The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane. Class I molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen so that they can be recognized by cytotoxic T cells. They are expressed in nearly all cells. The heavy chain is approximately 45 kDa and its gene contains 8 exons. Exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2 domains, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon 5 encodes the transmembrane region, and exons 6 and 7 encode the cytoplasmic tail. Polymorphisms within exon 2 and exon 3 are responsible for the peptide binding specificity of each class one molecule. Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation. More than 6000 HLA-A alleles have been described. The HLA system plays an important role in the occurrence and outcome of infectious diseases, including those caused by the malaria parasite, the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The structural spike and the nucleocapsid proteins of the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), are reported to contain multiple Class I epitopes with predicted HLA restrictions. Individual HLA genetic variation may help explain different immune responses to a virus across a population.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2020]"
"DIO1","protein_coding","ENSG00000211452","The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the iodothyronine deiodinase family. It catalyzes the activation, as well as the inactivation of thyroid hormone by outer and inner ring deiodination, respectively. The activation reaction involves the conversion of the prohormone thyroxine (3,5,3',5'-tetraiodothyronine, T4), secreted by the thyroid gland, to the bioactive thyroid hormone (3,5,3'-triiodothyronine, T3) by 5'-deiodination. This protein provides most of the circulating T3, which is essential for growth, differentiation and basal metabolism in vertebrates. This protein is a selenoprotein, containing the rare amino acid selenocysteine (Sec) at its active site. Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, designated the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon, rather than as a stop signal. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2018]"
"SIPA1","protein_coding","ENSG00000213445","The product of this gene is a mitogen induced GTPase activating protein (GAP). It exhibits a specific GAP activity for Ras-related regulatory proteins Rap1 and Rap2, but not for Ran or other small GTPases. This protein may also hamper mitogen-induced cell cycle progression when abnormally or prematurely expressed. It is localized to the perinuclear region. Two alternatively spliced variants encoding the same isoform have been characterized to date. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"S1PR3","protein_coding","ENSG00000213694","This gene encodes a member of the EDG family of receptors, which are G protein-coupled receptors. This protein has been identified as a functional receptor for sphingosine 1-phosphate and likely contributes to the regulation of angiogenesis and vascular endothelial cell function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"DDAH2","protein_coding","ENSG00000213722","This gene encodes a dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase. The encoded enzyme functions in nitric oxide generation by regulating the cellular concentrations of methylarginines, which in turn inhibit nitric oxide synthase activity. The protein may be localized to the mitochondria. Alternative splicing resulting in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]"
"LRRC69","protein_coding","ENSG00000214954","Predicted to be involved in signal transduction. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"ATAD3C","protein_coding","ENSG00000215915","Predicted to enable zinc ion binding activity. Predicted to be involved in mitochondrion organization. Located in mitochondrion. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"PDGFA-DT","lncRNA","ENSG00000223855",""
"PRR29","protein_coding","ENSG00000224383",""
"CSRP1-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000224536",""
"IL1R1-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000226925",""
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000228113","no information"
"HSDL2-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000230185","no information"
"LINC00472","lncRNA","ENSG00000233237",""
"BCL2L1-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000236559","no information"
"STARD13-AS","lncRNA","ENSG00000236581",""
"STON1","protein_coding","ENSG00000243244","Endocytosis of cell surface proteins is mediated by a complex molecular machinery that assembles on the inner surface of the plasma membrane. This gene encodes one of two human homologs of the Drosophila melanogaster stoned B protein. This protein is related to components of the endocytic machinery and exhibits a modular structure consisting of an N-terminal proline-rich domain, a central region of homology specific to the human stoned B-like proteins, and a C-terminal region homologous to the mu subunits of adaptor protein (AP) complexes. Read-through transcription of this gene into the neighboring downstream gene, which encodes TFIIA-alpha/beta-like factor, generates a transcript (SALF), which encodes a fusion protein comprised of sequence sharing identity with each individual gene product. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]"
"STMP1","protein_coding","ENSG00000243317","Predicted to be involved in positive regulation of NLRP3 inflammasome complex assembly and positive regulation of interleukin-1 beta production. Predicted to be located in mitochondrial intermembrane space and mitochondrial outer membrane. Predicted to be active in mitochondrial respirasome. [provided by Alliance of Genome Resources, Apr 2022]"
"FAM3D-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000244383",""
"ARAP1-AS2","lncRNA","ENSG00000245148",""
"NEAT1","lncRNA","ENSG00000245532","This gene produces a long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) transcribed from the multiple endocrine neoplasia locus. This lncRNA is retained in the nucleus where it forms the core structural component of the paraspeckle sub-organelles. It may act as a transcriptional regulator for numerous genes, including some genes involved in cancer progression. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015]"
"RETREG1-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000246214",""
"LINC00926","lncRNA","ENSG00000247982",""
"","protein_coding","ENSG00000249240","no information"
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000249456","no information"
"ESAM-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000250073",""
"RHOQ-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000250116",""
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000250195",""
"ALDH1L1-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000250218",""
"","protein_coding","ENSG00000251184","no information"
"PXN-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000255857",""
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000257283",""
"MGAM","protein_coding","ENSG00000257335","This gene encodes maltase-glucoamylase, which is a brush border membrane enzyme that plays a role in the final steps of digestion of starch. The protein has two catalytic sites identical to those of sucrase-isomaltase, but the proteins are only 59% homologous. Both are members of glycosyl hydrolase family 31, which has a variety of substrate specificities. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"GPR84-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000258086","no information"
"GPR84-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000258137",""
"OXA1L-DT","lncRNA","ENSG00000258458","no information"
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000260911","no information"
"DIS3L-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000261318","no information"
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000261427","no information"
"MYL12-AS1","lncRNA","ENSG00000264235",""
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000265218","no information"
"FXYD1","protein_coding","ENSG00000266964","This gene encodes a member of a family of small membrane proteins that share a 35-amino acid signature sequence domain, beginning with the sequence PFXYD and containing 7 invariant and 6 highly conserved amino acids. The approved human gene nomenclature for the family is FXYD-domain containing ion transport regulator. Mouse FXYD5 has been termed RIC (Related to Ion Channel). FXYD2, also known as the gamma subunit of the Na,K-ATPase, regulates the properties of that enzyme. FXYD1 (phospholemman), FXYD2 (gamma), FXYD3 (MAT-8), FXYD4 (CHIF), and FXYD5 (RIC) have been shown to induce channel activity in experimental expression systems. Transmembrane topology has been established for two family members (FXYD1 and FXYD2), with the N-terminus extracellular and the C-terminus on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane substrate for several kinases, including protein kinase A, protein kinase C, NIMA kinase, and myotonic dystrophy kinase. It is thought to form an ion channel or regulate ion channel activity. Transcript variants with different 5' UTR sequences have been described in the literature. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]"
"","protein_coding","ENSG00000267314","no information"
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000268362","no information"
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000268583","no information"
"","protein_coding","ENSG00000269825",""
"","protein_coding","ENSG00000271810","no information"
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000273118","no information"
"","lncRNA","ENSG00000273138","no information"
